Okay! I'm logged into Ubuntu at the
command line here. You can see from
my screen that I'm actually logged in as
root. The commands, I'm going to show you
can either run them as root or a user
that has sudo authority. Depends on how
you set up your system and how you want
to be working with it. The commands do
need to be run as the root user though.
So, as root directly or sudo is going
to work for either one. The first thing
that we want to do is update the
packages on the system. We can do that
with apt get update, and later versions
of Ubuntu, I think you can do it with
just app, apt update. So, I'm going to go
ahead and do that. You can see that
it Ubuntu's package manager in Ubuntu
is going to go out and get updates
for all of this. I'm going to go do it
clear here, get back to the top of screen,
and now we can do apt get install, so
that right here, we're going to do an apt
-get install mysql -server.
Now, if there's a specific version that
we wanted to do, we can include the
version information here. I think 5.7 is
the latest release at the time of
recording. The latest version is going to
be fine for us, so we'd really don't need
to specify that version number unless
you really want a specific version
number. So, I'm going to go ahead and hit
enter there. You can see that it's
going out and it's got to say a we're
going to take up another 243 mega disc
space. Like I said, MySQL is pretty
lean. So, I'm going to say yes, and now, the
Ubuntu installer is going to go out and
download these from the internet in a
variety of packages. I'm going to pause the
video here while this installation
completes and then pick it back up when
we're done. Okay, so we're now in the
setup portion. You can see that at the
bottom of screen, we have configuring
MySQL server 5.7. It's not mandatory to set
a root user. Being that this is
development, I am going to leave it blank.
If this was an important database that
we were not using for development,
subnetworks or for production, definitely
bad habit to not set a root user
password. But, for development, that is
fine.
I'm just going to hit enter, and now the
installation process is going to
continue. We are being asked for it
again. So, I'm going to leave it blank, and
now, the installation script is going
through and doing some final config.
We can see that this is all done. I'm
going to clear the screen again. I'm just
using the command clear. Now, what we can do a
service mysql status and we can see that
as coming back as stopped. I can
change that to start and we can see that
that is now up. Just hitting the up
arrow, I can bring back these commands. So,
I'm going to hit status again. Now, we
can see that MySQL is up and running,
It's happy. We get some status
information on that, so you do want that.
If you're not able to connect to MySQL
on your Linux installation, go ahead and
make sure that it is up and running.
I'm not sure.  I don't remember for this
installer, we'll have it set it up so
that it restarts on system reboots. So, that
may be an additional step here. I'll have
to look into that. I'm not positive about
how the MySQL installation on
Ubuntu handles that.